README.md, before:

# Music theory: The calculator | `tonic-music`.

[![CI](https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License: AGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)

> A command-line music theory calculator for generating scales, chords, and full scale harmonization. Built with Rust.

`tonic-music` is a simple, fast CLI tool for musicians and developers who need to quickly calculate music theory constructs from their terminal.

## 🚀 Installation

### From Source
Ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed.

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator.git
    cd music-theory-calculator
    ```
2.  Build the project:
    ```bash
    make build
    ```
3.  Install the binary:
    ```bash
    cargo install --path crates/tonic-music-cli
    ```

## 🌐 Web App

This project includes a WebAssembly (Wasm) version that runs directly in your browser.

**👉 [Try the Live Demo](https://airvzxf.github.io/music-theory-calculator/)**

### Running Locally
To build and serve the web interface locally:

1.  Ensure you have `wasm-pack` installed:
    ```bash
    cargo install wasm-pack
    ```
2.  Run the serve command:
    ```bash
    make serve
    ```
3.  Open `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

### Self-Hosting
To host the application on your own server (Apache, Nginx, Vercel, etc.):

1.  Build the Wasm module:
    ```bash
    cd crates/tonic-music-wasm
    wasm-pack build --target web
    ```
2.  Upload the following files to your web server:
    *   `index.html`
    *   The entire `pkg/` folder created by the build command.

Ensure your server structure looks like this:
```
/www
  ├── index.html
  └── pkg/
      ├── tonic_music_wasm.js
      └── tonic_music_wasm_bg.wasm
```

## ⚙️ Usage

`tonic-music` provides three main commands: `scale`, `chord`, and `harmonize`.

You can now choose the output format using the `--format` flag: `text` (default), `json`, or `markdown`.

### `scale`
Generates the notes of a given scale. Now supports `major`, `minor`, `harmonic` (minor), and pentatonic (`penta-major`, `penta-minor`) scales.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music scale --root A --scale-type penta-minor
```

**Output (Text):**
```text
--- A penta-minor Scale ---
[A, C, D, E, G]
```

**Output (JSON):**
```bash
tonic-music scale --root A --scale-type penta-minor --format json
```
```json
{
  "root": "A",
  "scale_type": "PentatonicMinor",
  "notes": ["A", "C", "D", "E", "G"]
}
```

### `chord`

Generates the notes of a given chord. Now supports triads, a wide variety of **seventh chords** (e.g., `maj7`, `m7`, `7`), and can display **inversions**.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music chord -r G -c 7 --inversions
```

**Output:**

```text
--- G 7 Chord ---
Root:   [G, B, D, F]
1st Inv:    [B, D, F, G]
2nd Inv:    [D, F, G, B]
3rd Inv:    [F, G, B, D]
```

### `harmonize`

Generates the full set of diatonic chords for a given scale. Can now generate **seventh chords** instead of triads.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music harmonize -r C -s major --sevenths
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C major Harmonization ---
I (C):       C maj7  -> [C, E, G, B]
II (D):      D m7    -> [D, F, A, C]
III (E):     E m7    -> [E, G, B, D]
IV (F):      F maj7  -> [F, A, C, E]
V (G):       G 7     -> [G, B, D, F]
VI (A):      A m7    -> [A, C, E, G]
VII (B):     B m7b5  -> [B, D, F, A]
```

### `progression`

Generates a harmonic progression (chord formula). Now features **voice leading**, automatically selecting inversions to create smoother transitions between chords.

**Command (Predefined Formula):**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula circle
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C circle Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
vi:     A m     -> [C, E, A]
ii:     D m     -> [D, F, A]
V7:     G 7     -> [D, F, G, B]
```

**Command (Custom Formula):**

You can define your own progression using Roman Numerals (e.g., `I`, `IV`, `V7`, `ii7`).

```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --custom "I-IV-iv-I"
```

**Output:**
```text
--- C "I-IV-iv-I" Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
iv:     F m     -> [C, F, G#]
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula block
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C block Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
V7:     G 7     -> [B, D, F, G]
I7:     C 7     -> [C, E, G, A#]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula guajira
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C guajira Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
V7:     G 7     -> [B, D, F, G]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula minor-block
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C MinorBlock Progression ---
vi:     A m     -> [C, E, A]
IV7:    F 7     -> [C, D#, F, A]
ii:     D m     -> [D, F, A]
III7:   E 7     -> [D, E, G#, B]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's reporting a bug, suggesting a feature, or writing code, all help is appreciated.

Please read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the **GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPLv3)**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

feat: Add android app and rust FFI bindings.
- Create  crate with UniFFI support
- Add Android project in
- Add === Building FFI Crate ===

=== Generating Bindings ===
-> Generating Kotlin...
Warning: Unable to auto-format tonic_music_ffi.kt using ktlint: Os { code: 2, kind: NotFound, message: "No such file or directory" }
-> Generating Swift...
Warning: Unable to auto-format tonic_music_ffi.swift using swiftformat: Os { code: 2, kind: NotFound, message: "No such file or directory" }

=== Syncing to Apps (if present) ===
-> Copying Kotlin bindings to /home/wolf/workspace/projects/music-theory-calculator/apps/android/app/src/main/java/net/rovisoft/tonicmusic
-> Detected cargo-ndk. Building and syncing native libraries...
   Outputting .so files to: /home/wolf/workspace/projects/music-theory-calculator/apps/android/app/src/main/jniLibs for auto-generating bindings and libs
- Update CI/CD to include Android build pipeline
- Update Makefile and documentation

README.md, after:

# Music theory: The calculator | `tonic-music`.

[![CI](https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License: AGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)

> A command-line music theory calculator for generating scales, chords, and full scale harmonization. Built with Rust.

`tonic-music` is a simple, fast CLI tool for musicians and developers who need to quickly calculate music theory constructs from their terminal.

## 🚀 Installation

### From Source
Ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed.

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/airvzxf/music-theory-calculator.git
    cd music-theory-calculator
    ```
2.  Build the project:
    ```bash
    make build
    ```
3.  Install the binary:
    ```bash
    cargo install --path crates/tonic-music-cli
    ```

## 📱 Mobile Apps

This project is a Monorepo containing the core logic and mobile applications.

*   **Android:** `apps/android` (Kotlin + Jetpack Compose)
*   **iOS:** `apps/ios` (Swift + SwiftUI)

For detailed setup and development instructions, see [docs/MOBILE_INTEGRATION.md](docs/MOBILE_INTEGRATION.md).

## 🌐 Web App

This project includes a WebAssembly (Wasm) version that runs directly in your browser.

**👉 [Try the Live Demo](https://airvzxf.github.io/music-theory-calculator/)**

### Running Locally
To build and serve the web interface locally:

1.  Ensure you have `wasm-pack` installed:
    ```bash
    cargo install wasm-pack
    ```
2.  Run the serve command:
    ```bash
    make serve
    ```
3.  Open `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

### Self-Hosting
To host the application on your own server (Apache, Nginx, Vercel, etc.):

1.  Build the Wasm module:
    ```bash
    cd crates/tonic-music-wasm
    wasm-pack build --target web
    ```
2.  Upload the following files to your web server:
    *   `index.html`
    *   The entire `pkg/` folder created by the build command.

Ensure your server structure looks like this:
```
/www
  ├── index.html
  └── pkg/
      ├── tonic_music_wasm.js
      └── tonic_music_wasm_bg.wasm
```

## ⚙️ Usage

`tonic-music` provides three main commands: `scale`, `chord`, and `harmonize`.

You can now choose the output format using the `--format` flag: `text` (default), `json`, or `markdown`.

### `scale`
Generates the notes of a given scale. Now supports `major`, `minor`, `harmonic` (minor), and pentatonic (`penta-major`, `penta-minor`) scales.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music scale --root A --scale-type penta-minor
```

**Output (Text):**
```text
--- A penta-minor Scale ---
[A, C, D, E, G]
```

**Output (JSON):**
```bash
tonic-music scale --root A --scale-type penta-minor --format json
```
```json
{
  "root": "A",
  "scale_type": "PentatonicMinor",
  "notes": ["A", "C", "D", "E", "G"]
}
```

### `chord`

Generates the notes of a given chord. Now supports triads, a wide variety of **seventh chords** (e.g., `maj7`, `m7`, `7`), and can display **inversions**.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music chord -r G -c 7 --inversions
```

**Output:**

```text
--- G 7 Chord ---
Root:   [G, B, D, F]
1st Inv:    [B, D, F, G]
2nd Inv:    [D, F, G, B]
3rd Inv:    [F, G, B, D]
```

### `harmonize`

Generates the full set of diatonic chords for a given scale. Can now generate **seventh chords** instead of triads.

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music harmonize -r C -s major --sevenths
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C major Harmonization ---
I (C):       C maj7  -> [C, E, G, B]
II (D):      D m7    -> [D, F, A, C]
III (E):     E m7    -> [E, G, B, D]
IV (F):      F maj7  -> [F, A, C, E]
V (G):       G 7     -> [G, B, D, F]
VI (A):      A m7    -> [A, C, E, G]
VII (B):     B m7b5  -> [B, D, F, A]
```

### `progression`

Generates a harmonic progression (chord formula). Now features **voice leading**, automatically selecting inversions to create smoother transitions between chords.

**Command (Predefined Formula):**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula circle
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C circle Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
vi:     A m     -> [C, E, A]
ii:     D m     -> [D, F, A]
V7:     G 7     -> [D, F, G, B]
```

**Command (Custom Formula):**

You can define your own progression using Roman Numerals (e.g., `I`, `IV`, `V7`, `ii7`).

```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --custom "I-IV-iv-I"
```

**Output:**
```text
--- C "I-IV-iv-I" Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
iv:     F m     -> [C, F, G#]
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula block
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C block Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
V7:     G 7     -> [B, D, F, G]
I7:     C 7     -> [C, E, G, A#]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula guajira
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C guajira Progression ---
I:      C       -> [C, E, G]
IV:     F       -> [C, F, A]
V7:     G 7     -> [B, D, F, G]
```

**Command:**
```bash
tonic-music progression --root C --formula minor-block
```

**Output:**

```text
--- C MinorBlock Progression ---
vi:     A m     -> [C, E, A]
IV7:    F 7     -> [C, D#, F, A]
ii:     D m     -> [D, F, A]
III7:   E 7     -> [D, E, G#, B]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's reporting a bug, suggesting a feature, or writing code, all help is appreciated.

Please read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the **GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPLv3)**. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
